On that note, let’s turn our
thoughts to those on the front line
trying to protect Londoners
during this pandemic,
and to whom we are most grateful.
We’ve just heard the Wembley Stadium
march has been lit up blue and it
will be every night to shine a
will be every night to shine alight
will be every night to shine a light
on the
will be every night to shine alight
on the work of the NHS and front
line staff.
London Ambulance has told us
it’s been the busiest
time in their history.
Karl Mercer has being hearing
from paramedics and call handlers
as health workers adapt
to a rapidly changing situation.
Emergency ambulance,
is the patient breathing?
They’re answering calls
in the normal way, but this
is not business as usual
for London’s Ambulance Service.
Just to confirm, is she awake?
They’re dealing with more cells
than ever in their history.
It’s been very busy, very busy,
over the last few days.
We’ve got calls waiting,
people waiting to get through.
holding, all across London,
people who we’ve triaged
and are waiting for ambulances,
and we’ve got people right now
waiting to get through.
Stressful, stressful.
It’s been very busy over
the last three to four weeks
now, getting busier.
And it’s very demanding
on all our staff at the moment.
It’s very stressful
for them right now.
Like many of the emergency services,
they are stretched.
Some staff have had to self—isolate,
others will have to go home to look
after theirfamilies.
Still, the calls will come.
Unprecedented times,
staff working incredibly hard.
We’vejust had our three busiest
days ever in 999 call answering.
Nearly 8,000 calls on each
of the last three days,
that’s up from a normal busy day
of about 5,000 calls.
And in the 111 service,
call volumes three and four times
as high as they would be.
50, really challenging times,
we’re working incredibly hard
to answer as many queries as we can,
but our real strong advice to people
is, if you can avoid phoning,
absolutely do not phone 999
unless it’s a really
life—threatening emergency.
They’ve called on former workers
to get in touch if they can help out
and have also had to adapt
to new ways of working.
Hi, I’m Ben, I’m 26,
I’ve been a paramedic
for two and a half years.
With recent events, there’s been
some changes to how we’re working,
particularly with PPE,
the kit that we’re wearing.
So, we’lljump on board now and I’ll
show you what we’re doing.
SIREN SOUNDS.
So, some of the things
that we are using...
For cases that are confirmed,
all we would have to use
specific procedures,
you may see us wearing these big
white suits and goggles
and a special facemask.
Otherwise, if the patient calls
and they think they might
have symptoms consistent
with coronavirus, what you will
often see is us wearing an apron,
as normal, surgical mask and two
pairs of gloves.
Don’t be alarmed, it might look
a little bit much but it’s
entirely precautionary.
And then the patients that we’re
going to in these buildings,
where they live, they’re not
particularly unwell,
we’re often leaving them at home.
So, if you do see this,
don’t worry at all.
You might see it more
in the days to come,
but it’s nothing to worry about.
Tell me about what’s happening.
A message of reassurance
in difficult times for those helping
to keep Londoners safe.
Karl Mercer, BBC London.
m:
We are most grateful to them.
Now, whilst schools closing
tomorrow has left many
parents with questions,
there are some Londoners
who are already coming to the rescue
with how to keep children
entertained while at home.
Here’s Caroline Davies
with some of them —
including a well—known Dame and some
kids in Enfield.
All the children on our road,
including me, have made this
rainbow, so when people walk by,
they can smile and know that
there’s hope even though
the coronavirus is here.
Colouring to keep everyone cheerful.
In Enfield, children have put out
pictures of rainbows
for others to spot and count
on neighbourhood walks.
A very simple U—shape, like that.
One Londoner is also offering online
art classes for free.
Drawing is something that has been
around since time immemorial.
It’s like one of the nicest
and easiest things that we can do.
And because we do it,
as you saw in the video,
a little tiny bit at a time,
it’s something that’s very
attainable and, you know,
people are really surprised
with the results that they get,
so, it’s lovely to see.
Paul and Simon usually run drama
workshops in school.
With them closed, they’re
offering drama games online.
We will share kind of a two—minute
video every day, and it will be
a drama game or a drama activity
that families can do at home.
So, whether it’s literacy, history,
geography, you can use
drama in all of those.
Just trying to keep the flame
burning, really, make it a bit more
exciting and playful for people
who are at home in
this stressful time.
And in these uncertain times,
there are also plenty offering
just a bit of silliness.
0h!
There you are!
Just keep laughing.
That’s all we can do.
Listen to Dame Judi.
And we’ll try and bring you more
of those positive stories every day.
If you want to tell us how your
community is helping each other,
share it on your local BBC radio
station which has Make A Difference
stories throughout the day.
And of course I know I’ve said it
before but it’s worth repeating,
with advice being updated
all the time — get the latest,
more importantly the facts
about coronavirus —
on our website, Facebook
and the BBC News app.
I’ll wish you goodnight
now and leave you with
Stav Danaos for the weather.
Hello there.
We’ve got one more day of grey,
damp weather before conditions
really improve into the weekend
with plenty of sunshine.
So tonight is going to be cloudy
as well like it was today.
That cloud thick enough for some
spots of light rain and drizzle.
But with the cloud cover,
temperatures shouldn’t fall much
below 4 or 5 degrees
for the most of us.
Now, as we head on into tomorrow,
it’s going to be another grey day,
the cloud thick enough again
for some light rain
and drizzle in places,
and it will also feel quite chilly
in a brisk north—easterly wind.
Those temperatures reaching highs
of 8—10 degrees in the capital.
Then into the weekend, then,
plenty of sunshine around
thanks to high pressure,
but it will be chilly with quite
a fresh easterly breeze and it stays
fine into next week as well.
Stay tuned now for your national
weather with Chris Fawkes.
Hello. We had some big contrasts in
the weather across the UK. Again, it
was northern areas that had the best
of the days
of the day’s sunshine, some
beautiful skies there over the snow
covered mountains in Scotland but it
wasn’t like that everywhere. Further
south we’ve had this pesky weather
front for a number of days, low
cloud, damp, drizzly weather. It
cloud, damp, driuly weather. It
only got to 5
cloud, damp, drizzly weather. It
only got to 5 degrees in South Wales
so quite chilly as well. That front
is still with us. It’s going nowhere
fast. It stays grey, mist, hill fog
patches, patches of rain and
drizzla,
drizzle, but not particularly cold
drizzla, but not particularty cold
across
drizzle, but not particularly cold
across the South of England and
South Wales. Temperatures 5—6d.
South Walas. Temperatures 5-6d.
Further
South Wales. Temperatures 5—6d.
Further north of the frost is more
widespread and sharp as well,
temperatures get down to about —6 or
temperatures get down to about -6 or
-7 in the
temperatures get down to about —6 or
—7 in the coldest parts of Scotland.
-7 in the coldest parts of Scotland.
Tomorrow,
—7 in the coldest parts of Scotland.
Tomorrow, this area of high pressure
strengthens. This area of low
pressure deepens and the result is
we get the stronger winds blowing
across England and in particular
around the headlands of south—west
around the headlands of south-west
England. I
around the headlands of south—west
England. I think here we could get
gusts of around A0 miles an hour or
gusts of around 40 mils an hour or
so, but a
so, buta pretty
gusts of around A0 miles an hour or
so, but a pretty cold wind for
Walas, the
Wales, the Midlands and East Anglia.
Walas, the Midlands and East Anglia.
Away from
Wales, the Midlands and East Anglia.
Away from the south it stays quite
drizzly, even into the afternoon.
Across many areas it’s a dry day, a
few isolated light show is coming
and going across the north—east of
and going across the north-east of
England
and going across the north—east of
England although there won’t be many
of these. On into the weekend’s
forecast, with high pressure
influencing the weather its a mostly
inﬂuencing the weather its a mostly
dry weekend.
influencing the weather its a mostly
dry weekend. However, the amount of
cloud will vary from
We’re going back to Afghan.
It’s a lot of new faces
that need bedding in.
THEY SHOUT
It was yourfault!
They’re targeting the hospital.
My fiance was killed
on a mission to get Omar.
The same warlord who killed
your husband is now targeting you.
# Oh, I let my lover go
# Didn’t wanna be a liar
# Ashes in the cold
# Now I’m running toward the fire
# Runnin’ toward,
runnin’ toward the fire... #
Just keep being reminded of Elvis.
I don’t think
I can do this any more.
WORP!
Ready?
Let’s go.
Argh!
SCREAMING
Snap!
Ha! You missed me, right?
I’m the Doctor. What?
BOTH: What?
Everything is about to change.
SHE CLICKS HER FINGERS
I know you think I’m mad,
but give me five minutes and you’ll
think I’m the sanest person alive.
OK, that was an overstatement.
Every episode, every adventure.
The 13th Doctor —
only on BBC iPlayer.
It’s an extraordinary ask,
isn’t it, to, um...
..bear a child for someone?
This is something I want to do.
I can change your life
and you can change mine.
Using an 18—year—old fresh out of
a children’s home? Jesus, Emily!
Well, I’m doing it,
with or without you.
This lassie has keyed into you,
and you’re not thinking straight.
It’s exploitation, pure and simple.
Daniel Docherty, he’s called.
Minted! Owns half of Glasgow.
Something’s not right.
She’s got all the power,
but we’ve no choice
but to trust her.
What have you told them?
The lassie’s story doesnae add up.
Do you hear that wee voice
in your head?
Well, my one’s saying,
"We can do this."
SHE SCREAMS
ECHOES: Do this...
Oi, come here!
You’re. . . nicked.
Who’s the one that got him?
Back to what you were doing, Sandra.
You can’t touch that one,
she’s Mr Pullman’s daughter.
I like a bit of danger.
Then I’ve got all you can handle.
I’m DCI Ackroyd. You’ve heard of me?
Yes, guv.
You like being a cop?
Yes, guv. You want a transfer
to my team? Yes, I do.
Then it’s done. Welcome aboard,
Detective Sergeant Standing.
He’s here, Gerry.
Still got it.
# It’s all right
It’s OK
# Doesn’t really matter
if you’re old and grey
# It’s all right
I say it’s OK
# Listen to what I say
# It’s all right, doing fine
# Doesn’t really matter
if the sun don’t shine
# It’s all right
I say it’s OK
# We’re gettin’
to the end of the day. #
Well, can’t your mum do it?
Gone where?
Has she, indeed? Who with?
No, no, no, but it’s all right for
some, isn’t it?
Well, listen, what about
what’s—her—name from next door?
Caitlin, just because someone
has a drink now and again
it doesn’t make them an alc...
0h.
Yeah, no, that is quite a lot, yeah.
Yeah, OK then, but you’ll have to
lay it all out for me.
Yeah, but not for over 30 years.
All the gear’s different, isn’t it?
OK, I’ll see you tomorrow.
Everything all right, Gerry?
Yeah, yeah, yeah. Listen, guv’nor,
can I have tomorrow off?
Caitlin’s got to work
and her husband’s away at some
conference, so they need someone to
look after the little’un.
Can we spare you, Gerry,
is the question.
What if we find ourselves in another
high—speed pursuit like yesterday?
She’s trusting you all day
with her baby?
Yeah, we should probably put
social services on alert.
He’s asleep most of the time.
Like grandfather like grandson.
0h. Trouble?
Internet dating.
And I’m saying that out loud because
it’s nothing to be ashamed of
and I don’t need you three giggling
about it behind my back because I am
not looking at three men here who’ve
made unimpeachable life choices.
No, I think it’s...great. Yeah,
good for you, you get out there.
Fine, then.
What happened to the bloke who
took her to Barcelona?
What goes on in Barcelona, Gerry,
stays in Barcelona.
And he did stay in Barcelona...
with a 25—year—old
occupational therapist.
Oh, dear, oh, dear.
Hiya.
Guv’nor, if they only found
this body a few hours ago,
what’s it got to do with Ucos?
The murder investigation
teams are all up to their eyes,
so Strickland wants us
to baby—sit until he can assign it.
Baby—sitting’s very much
Gerry’s forte.
This one’s even less
likely to wake up.
The body’s been here for about
30 years, they reckon.
Who owns the house?
A Russian billionaire bought it six
months ago for seven million quid.
Thanks.
He’s having the whole place
gutted and rebuilt.
When was the last time you
changed a nappy?
It’s like riding a bike, isn’t it?
When’s the last time you
rode a bike?
How hard can it be? You’ve never
changed a nappy, have you?
It’s a generational thing. Is it?
My wife and I took it in turns.
Yeah, well, that’s a Scottish thing.
No, it isn’t.
How many children have you had?
How many wives, more to the point.
Well, if any of you wants to come
round and give us a hand, feel free.
No, I’d much ratherjust sit back
and watch you try and figure it out.
I’ll bring some popcorn.
And on that neat segue,
this is going to be a cinema room.
Oh, I see what you did there.
It’ll be nice when it’s finished.
Workmen have been digging it
out for the past few days.
Overnight the water pump failed
and when they got in this morning,
water had seeped up into
the hole and this came with it.
What had he done to the house?
Could it predate the house?
It’s not likely.
A Signet ring.
It was found on the body.
Came off him in one of the workmen’s
hands as he tried to pull the thing
out of the water before he realised
what it was he’d grabbed hold of.
He’s going to be having some
colourful nightmares.
More 19705 than Nth—century.
Does anyone need anything from here?
Scene Of Crime are going to run
an ultrasound and see
if there’s anything else where
the body came from. Dan?
Well, it’s 30 years on,
the builders have gutted the place,
so there’s nothing for me.
Steve? No. Gerry? No.
Better get used to handling
unpleasant things in bags, Gerry.
Yeah.
Everything all right, Gerry? Eh?
You seem a bit away with
the fairies today.
Well, it’s nerves, big day tomorrow.
Hey, why don’t you take the baby
to one of those
mother-and-baby screenings, eh?
Meet some yummy mummies.
Yummy grannies.
Here we go, 30 years ago,
that house belonged to a guy
called Richard Lloyd Owen.
He bought it in 1972,
sold it again in 1987.
Why are we bothering with this?
What do you mean?
Well, it’s not our case, is it?
Like Sasha said,
we’re baby—sitting it,
it’ll be taken off our hands
in a day or so.
Yeah, but whila we’ve got it,
you know...
Yes, needs to be fed, winded,
taken for a nice walk in the park.
Doesn’t look like Lloyd Owen
lived in it after 1976,
it was standing empty.
Maybe the killers broke in.
No, those houses were pretty close
together.
If someone was going to dig up
the basement
of an empty house,
a neighbour would have heard.
Well, maybe
if it didn’t seem suspicious,
if there was building works
going on...
I’ll check the planning department.
These houses are listed,
you’d need permission.
We have a development.
When they pulled that body
out of the water,
they found something tangled
up in what was left of his clothes.
Detective Chief Inspector
Martin Ackroyd. 0h, Jesus.
Gerry? Is it definitely him?
Dental records are a match.
Why are we looking at Gerry?
Because Gerry was working under
DCI Ackroyd when he went missing.
Yeah,
but I’d only just been transferred.
Went missing?
Martin Ackroyd failed to turn up for
work on the 7th of November 1983.
No—one’s seen him since and his
case was classified as unsolved,
so it comes under
the Ucos purvey already.
Cop goes missing, they must
have looked pretty hard.
They did, but he disappeared
off the face of the earth.
Have we got a cause of death yet?
Pathologist hasn’t finished yet
but the skull was caved in,
so that’s our most likely
cause of death.
We have no idea what the murder
weapon might have been,
so I’ve asked Fiona Kennedy to
work on a reconstruction for us.
So, who would have
wanted Ackroyd dead back then?
What, you mean apart from all
the people he got banged up?
The two people that were questioned
most thoroughly in connection
with his disappearance were
two of his sergeants,
Don Bryant and Warren McCabe.
There was a theory that Bryant
and McCabe were on the take
and that Ackroyd found out
and was going to shop them.
Nothing could be proved
but Bryant and McCabe
were essentially
elbowed off the force anyway.
Do you remember them, Gerry?
Yeah, yeah, vaguely, I mean,
I was only working with them
for a couple of months.
I’m assuming that you can’t shed any
light on what happened to Ackroyd.
Nah. I hardly knew him.
He never came out drinking
or socialising or anything but...
Well, I could have a word with
the other two, if you like. Yeah.
Therre mnning a security firm now.
Take Danny.
It’d be just as easy
if I went on my own, wouldn’t it?
Yeah, but given that you worked with
Ackroyd, albeit briefly,
I’d rather someone unconnected
went with you. 0K.
Look, I know this goes without saying
but I’m going to say it anyway,
this is the murder of a fellow
police officer.
We take that very seriously indeed,
so let’s not
put a foot wrong here, 0K?
So these two were on the take? I
don’t know, do I look like Serpico?
No, you really don’t.
Well, things were different then.
You chase villains all day long
and then you’d end up drinking in
the same boozer as them after work.
I’m not sure that was
everyone’s experience.
I’m just saying that the lines
were blurred back then.
It was harder to tell who was
properly dodgy
and who just had a few tasty mates.
If these two were bent, still
doesn’t mean they killed a cop.
That’s a very big deal.
Good morning. Hello. We’re
here to see Mr Bryant and Mr McCabe.
Don’t talk to them.
They’re in thejob.
Is that...? Gerry Standing,
as I live and breathe.
I didn’t know if you’d remember me.
Danny Griffin, Warren McCabe.
Never forget a face. You’re in that
Ucos now, ain’t you? Yeah, yeah.
You too, Danny? Looks like you’ve
got all your own teeth.
You must be work experience
or something.
Is Mr Bryant here too?
He’s in a meeting.
Meeting’s over, Warren.
Gerald. Come in. Mr...?
Griffin, Danny Griffin.
Martin Ackroyd is dead.
That’s very sad.
Mind you, how old must he have been?
70, 75? Note bad innings.
They found his body this morning,
he’s been dead for over 30 years.
So when everyone thought he’d
disappeared...?
Presumably someone killed him
and that’s why you’re here.
We’re first on the list, Warren.
We did both give quite
detailed statements at the time.
Yeah, but we’ve got to follow it up.
You know how it is, Don.
Of course I do. But...
I don’t think we’ve got anything to
add to our original statements.
Warren?
What he said.
If anything, the passing of three
decades has rendered events...
..a little bit fuzzier.
There was a rumour
at the time that Ackroyd had
information about police corruption.
Rumours in a police station.
Only rumours, though, Mr Griffin,
nothing proved. We’re aware of that.
Just so we make sure we’re not
throwing old, false accusations
around trying to
make two plus two equal five.
We wouldn’t do that, Don.
Well, I’m sure if either of us
remember anything... Of course.
Right, well,
lovely to have met you both.
Certainly done all right
for yourselves despite leaving
the force early.
Still, I suppose you’re always going
to be busy with
the Chapman family as a client.
That was Dominic Chapman
leaving as we came in, wasn’t it?
I didn’t know he was out.
If you could look menacingly after us
as we leave, that would be super.
So, Bryant and McCabe are being
bankrolled by the Chapmans.
That’s what it looks like.
The Chapmans are... Organised crime.
Gerry, was there a connection
back then between Bryant, McCabe
and the Chapmans?
Not that I can remember, no.
I want someone on Bryant and McCabe.
Now that they know Ackroyd’s
body’s surfaced,
I want to know what they do
and where they go. Gerry?
Me? No, no, no,
I can’t do it, I’m sorry.
Well, I’m looking after the
little’un tomorrow, aren’t I?
Caitlin said I’ve got to have an
early night. Danny? I’d love to...
Good. ..but I have plans.
There’s a special screening of The
Big Sleep. I promised Fiona. Danny!
Sorry, she’s scarier than you.
She is not. Yeah, she is.
This is so not how I imagined
running my own unit would be,
there was
going to be coffee and doughnuts.
People calling you chief. Yes.
I’ll do it, chief. Thank you, Steve.
Time and a half, wasn’t it?
What happened to civic duty?
It’s alive and well
and costs 50% more after 6pm.
She was amazing, wasn’t she?
I love that phone call they do.
And the chemistry between them.
I said the chemistry between them.
Sorry.
You 0K?
Did you not enjoy it? Yeah, yeah,
loved it, it’s a brilliant film.
I’m just preoccupied.
Do you want to talk about it?
It’s just work.
You spend roughly 50 hours
a weekjust working.
You want to keep half your working
life secret from me.
I don’t want to bore you.
Golf is boring, cricket is boring,
the first Star Trek movie,
the original, not the new one,
Visconti’s The Leopard,
that’s really boring.
Just a moment, cricket is not boring.
Your work is not boring.
Not to me.
Cos you’re in it.
This body in the basement, are you
up—to—date on everything?
Yes, he was a cop, Martin Ackroyd.
He was Gerry’s old boss.
Not for long but...
And? And...| don’t know.
Gerry’s being a bit weird.
It’s probably nothing.
I’m flattered to have lost your
attention to "probably nothing"
for the entire evening.
Well, we found a signet ring with
the body and Gerry’s reaction
when he saw it was...
He seemed to recognise it
but he didn’t let on.
Well, maybe Gerry recognised it
and finally realised what had
happened to Ackroyd.
So why not say something?
I don’t know.
Maybe he wasn’t sure, maybe
he had other things on his mind.
Yes, he did go straight home
after work.
Sorry, Gerry went home after work?
0h, now I’m worried.
I must say, I’m rather enjoying
the keen—eyed detective noting
everything out of the ordinary.
Like the modern
incarnation of Philip Marlowe.
Down these mean streets a man must
walk. What, Mayfair?
You’d be surprised. Go on. Tales of
lust and murder amongst high society.
Lean towards the lust,
murder’s a bit worky.
I can do lust. I know you can.
(“an a dame like you handla it,
though?
You’lljust have to try me,
Mr Marlowe. Call me Phil.
He wouldn’t have said that.
No, 0K, how about
"She was the kind of forensic
anthropologist who could make
"a bishop kick a hole
in a stained—glass window"?
That’s more like it.
I’ll get my coat.
Hiya. I’m looking for Tommy Naylor.
Tommy Naylor.
No, sorry, mate. All right.
PHONE RINGS
Hello? Doug! Hello, mate,
thanks for getting back to us.
Yeah, yeah, I’m not bad, yeah.
You? What you up to?
Doug? Hello, you’re breaking up,
mate.
Hold on, Doug? Doug? You...
There you are.
No, no, I’m trying to
track down Tommy Naylor.
I’m slowly working my way through
all the old haunts but no sign yet.
No, no. You haven’t got a number
for him, have you?
0h, is he? When’s he back?
Cheers, mate, thanks a lot.
Hello, Gerald.
I was wondering when you two
would pitch up. And here we are.
Looking for Tommy Naylor, are we?
Your old partner in crime.
What happened to Ackroyd?
He died, apparently.
You told us that, didn’t you?
That’s right, and we’re going to
get to the bottom of it.
I don’t think you want to do that,
Gerald. See...
what with all those
shenanigans back then,
it was sort of best that should
dear old Martin Ackroyd resurface,
which it seems he’s done
now, it might be best to
provide a helpful trail
of breadcrumbs for whichever coppers
might find themselves in need of
some investigative assistance.
What have you done?
You don’t want to know. Stay clear.
It’s for your own good, Gerald.
Think of this as a friendly
warning of what’s at stake here.
In case you’ve forgotten
since the Naylor business. Oh, yeah?
Hiya, Gerry.
I was looking for you in the pub but
they said I’d just missed you.
I’ve got the car with me if you
fancy a ride home. You head off.
I’ll see you in the morning.
You’d best be on your way.
0h, you’d best
be trying to make me, pal.
I was a cop in Glasgow.
Do you think this is my first time
round the dance ﬂoor? Well?
Are you dancing?
Well, it was lovely running into you
again, Gerald, let’s keep in touch.
We will.
So following these two from club
to pub to bar, wondering what
the hell they’re up to and,
lo and behold,
it turns out they’re following you.
What’s all that about?
I’ve known them from way back.
It didn’t exactly
look like Friends Reunited.
A little misunderstanding,
that’s all.
What’s going on, Gerry?
Nothing. That wasn’t nothing.
Look, Steve, it’s not relevant to
anything, leave it.
OK, so you’re happy enough for me
to include that little fracas
when I report back to
Sasha in the morning?
Well, no, I’d ratheryou didn’t.
Well, there’s a shock. Who’s Naylor?
who? Gerry.
Look, it’s just a bit of ancient
history that needs clearing up,
I’m fine.
All right.
If you say so. Yeah. Oh, and thanks
for the lift home. No problem.
Have a good day with the baby
tomorrow. Oh, yeah, yeah, cheers.
Who’s Naylor? Good night, Steve.
DOOR SLAMS
This way, Gerry.
Let me introduce you to the team.
Gerry Standing,
meet Warren McCabe and Don Bryant.
All right? Gerry’s one of us now,
aren’t you, Gerry?
You two can show him the ropes.
Welcome to the team, Gerald.
You’re saying Don Bryant
gave this to you?
And he got it from who?
I don’t know the bloke’s name.
Scrap metal yard, off the Uxbridge
Road, belongs to the Chapman family.
I’m not a grass.
But I’m not on the take, either,
and I don’t want to be.
I just want to do me job.
I understand.
And I’m sorry about this.
I was worried that something was
going on with those two, but...
they get results and I wanted to
believe that was on the up and up.
But all right...
Do you know how we deal with this?
How?
This needs to go upstairs.
DCI Sainsbury’s running a team
looking at the Chapman family.
If Bryant and McCabe
are in their pocket,
Sainsbury will
want to know about it.
I think he’s going to want more
evidence thanjust this.
You need to carry on as you were.
Take the money they give you,
make a note of how much
and where it came from.
This is just you
and me at the moment. All right?
I just want to do me job.
This is yourjob now, Gerry.
You’re gathering evidence.
Baby formula...
It’s already mixed in the bottles.
You just nuke it for 30 seconds,
then give it a good shake,
make sure it’s not too hot.
We know all this, don’t we?
But don’t be dipping yourfingers in
it if you’ve just had a fag, Dad.
I wouldn’t do that!
And he’ll need winding after.
Yeah, like I used to wind you.
Er, like Mum used to wind me.
You’re going to be late, you know.
SHE SIGHS
0K.
You’ll be all right?
Yeah, of course we will.
A bit of telly,
a couple of songs, eh?
Oh, for God’s sake don’t
sing to him.
CHUCKLES
Very funny!
Thanks for this, Dad.
I’ll check in when I can.
0K, we’ll be here.
Bye, sweetheart. Bye, Mummy.
Bye—bye. Go on, wave.
DOOR CLOSES
All right, Charlas.
Get your coat, we’re going out.
HE SIGHS
Does the name Naylor mean
anything to you?
As in Tommy Naylor?
Yeah, it might be.
It’s just a name that came
up in one of Ackroyd’s files.
It’s before my time down here,
you know.
It’s probably Tommy Naylor, then.
Organised crime,
rival to the Chapman family.
He wouldn’t have been making very
big waves back then
but he would have probably
been on the radar.
Is he still around? Oh, yes.
You’re in early.
Worms to catch.
So how was last night?
Steve? Hm, with what?
Bryant and McCabe?
Oh, yeah, yeah. They went on a bit
of a pub crawl but, er...
Nothing to report.
WHISPERS: Morning. Gerry?
Shhh! He’s asleep!
Gerry, you’re not meant to be here.
Well, I got a bit bored and
I thought you could do with a hand.
This is Charlie. Gerry,
you can’t bring a baby into work...
..however cute he might be.
Oh, look at his little hands.
BABY TALK: Hello, Charlie.
A right little bruiser, isn’t he?
Well, he’s certainly
got the genes for it.
Just make sure he never goes near
one of those book things.
Oh, gosh.
He’s actually incredibly sweet,
Gerry. Congratulations.
No, he’s brilliant, as good as gold.
Yeah, but he can’t be in the office.
Well, I’ve got something to
check on the computer.
I’ll only be an hour or so,
and then we’ll be out of your hair.
As if I don’t have enough
babies to look after!
Jesus!
Ah, there you are.
I am trying to run a murder
investigation here. Sorry.
I—I came in early and...
You’re not sleeping, are you, sir?
The new baby doesn’t like sleep.
No, they don’t.
She knows exactly
when I’m just nodding off,
she can time it to the second.
Uncanny, aren’t they?
When do they,
erm...when do they stop this?
Oh, it’s just a few more months
and then, of course,
she’ll start teething...
No, she won’t. I won’t allow it.
BABY CRIES
I ran hear it.
It’s like she’s inside my head.
Gerry?
BABY CONTINUES CRYING
The baby’s awake. All right.
Well, it might need winding.
Orfeeding?
Did you bring milk?
Of course I did, it’s down there.
Well, I’ll do it, then, shall I?
Yeah, that’d be nice.
Give him here.
He probably doesn’t like heights.
There you are, there’s a good boy.
Look, he smiled at me.
Did he really? Would you get out
of his way? You’re freaking him out.
You blokes are doing great.
So I’m just going to nip
out for a bit. You’re what?
I won’t be long.
There’s extra nappies down there.
Gerry... Gerry, you can’t go.
You’re doing brilliantly!
But you can’tjust leave him here,
you can’t leave him here.
We’re in a nick,
he couldn’t be in safer hands.
I won’t be long. Gerry...
Oh, and rememberto wind him.
So Bryant and McCabe are top
of the list?
For the moment, yes.
We want to get the ins
and outs on their connection with
the Chapman family.
PHONE BLEEPS
0h!
Ah, internet date?
Is that Grinding,
or whatever it’s called?
No.
No, sir, it’s not that one.
Going well though, is it?
Yeah, going fine, thank you.
Excellent!
Sir?
Good. Right. I’m...
Good work. Keep it...
Keep going.
I think you’re right. Probably where
we should... That makes some sense.
We should get over there right away.
BABY CRIES
Sir.
It’s sleep deprivation.
I actually am going mad.
0K, Danny, you seem to have
this situation under control.
What?! Steve? I’ll be on my mobile
if you need me. Steve! You...!
Where is everyone? I don’t know.
One day they’ll have to come back,
and I will be waiting.
You’re holding him wrong.
I’m not holding him wrong. Here.
0h... Hello.
The child hates me. Oh!
BABY TALK: Well, let’s hope you can
solve the murder,
Charlie, because no—one
else around here seems bothered.
Actually, I’ve found something.
I was going through Ackroyd’s
old paperwork
and there is something odd here.
Oh, what has Uncle Danny found?
Uncle Danny has found an unpaid
invoice from a company called
R Woolcott Associates, presented
a week before Ackroyd disappeared.
BABY TALK: And who were they, then?
Well, they don’t exist any more.
They don’t exist any more.
But it looks like they were
private detectives.
Why is the dead policeman hiring
private detectives, eh?
One day I shalljust start screaming
and I may never stop.
Ronald Sainsbury? Yeah?
Morning. I’m from Ucos.
0h, Jack Halford’s lot, right?
Yeah, not any longer, sadly.
Well, how can I help you?
I was wondering if I could take you
on a little trip down memory lane.
He was one of your lot, as well,
wasn’t he? Yeah, Brian, that’s right.
Yeah, ordinarily
I would ask you inside
butJune’s got one of her
church group meetings
going on in the living room
and they’re all barking mad.
No, I’m all right here.
Do you remember a DCI
called Martin Ackroyd?
Oh, yeah, yeah. He disappeared.
No, his body turned up yesterday.
He’s been under a basement in
Primrose Hill for the last 30 years.
Blimey!
I’m not sure I can shed
any light on that for you.
No, of course not.
I worked for Ackroyd very briefly
alongside a couple of sergeants,
Don Bryant and Warren McCabe.
Oh, those two toerags! Yeah.
You led a team investigating
the Chapmans, right?
Did you have a list of all the cops
who were on Chapman’s payroll?
I’m sorry, I didn’t catch your name.
I’m sorry, Gerry Standing.
0h, right.
I see where this is going now.
Meaning what?
You’re worried your name
is on the list, are you?
Excuse me?
Gerry Standing, yes.
Your name cropped up in that
investigation, as much as anyone’s.
No, no, no, I’m clean. Really?
I think you were up to your neck
in it then.
I think you’re up to your eyes in it
now they’ve found Ackroyd’s body.
You see, the way I heard it,
he had been quietly gathering
evidence for months and he was
just about to blow the whistle
and suddenly he vanishes
off the face of the earth.
You must have had quite
a party down the pub that night.
No, no, no, Iwas never bent.
And now I work for Ucos
and we need that list.
There is no list, it went missing.
Along with all the case files.
What, everything gone? Yes.
Ackroyd vanished, so did our case.
Shame, really, because
it would have been nice
if your lot had got what
was coming to you.
Whatever! Thanks for your time.
Yeah.
HORN BEEPS
DOOR SLAMS
He’s gone.
What did you tell him?
Put the wind up him, like you said.
He’s shitting himself.
It will only get worse.
Are you ready for the next part?
Let’s make it look good,
shall we?
Tommy Naylor? Oh, I smell bacon.
Anyone smell bacon? That’s very good.
I’ve never heard that.
NAYLOR CHUCKLES
I haven’t committed
a crime in Scotland, have I?
It depends how far back
you can trace your family.
I think we have a tartan, but
everyone has a tartan, don’t they?
Please.
I didn’t catch your name.
Steve McAndrew.
I’m with the Unsolved Crimes And
Open Case Squad.
Retired? Yeah. Lucky you.
Does the name Martin Ackroyd mean
anything to you?
No, I don’t think so.
He was a detective chief inspector
in the early ‘805.
0h, a cop!
Ackroyd, yes.
Yes, I remember him.
Is he a friend of yours?
No. He’s dead.
Sorry to hear that. Really?
Just something you say, isn’t it?
I never really knew Mr Ackroyd.
We were on opposite sides back when
I used to be a little bit naughty,
so we never had much contact.
What about a guy who used to work
with him, Gerry Standing?
No, sorry.
Doesn’t ring any bells.
Gerry’s a friend of mine
and I think he’s in some trouble.
It involves a couple of ex—cops who
run a security firm now.
0h!
So we both know
who I’m talking about.
The past is a foreign country,
Steven.
It’s not a tourist destination.
I should leave well alone
if I were you.
I’m back! Shhh!
We’ve just this second got him down.
I told you, he’s as good as gold.
Where the bloody hell have you been?
0h, following something up.
Dead end, though. I better get this
little bloke home, hadn’t I?
So this is just free
childcare for you?
I’ll make it up to you.
Tonight, the drinks are on me.
Too right they are!
Where’s Steve?
God knows. He’s disappeared.
You’d never know we were
in the middle of a murder inquiry.
Hello, is Tommy Naylor there,
please?
Ah...
Yeah, just tell him
it’s an old friend.
I’m out.
I’ll see you.
And I’ll raise you 50.
50?
Gerry...
You’re at the big boys’ table now.
Come on, then, see me.
Show me what you got, Tommy.
Fine.
I’ll see you.
And I’ll raise you another...
50.
I’m all in.
Sure?
This is going to hurt.
Call.
Flush.
Ace high.
Take it.
Are you all right? I’m fine.
Here, what did you have?
I was bluffing. No, you weren’t.
You had the full house.
You couldn’t take the hit.
I made the bet!
Yeah, for the benefit of the table.
I could see it in your eyes, Gerry.
That one was going to hurt.
It’s supposed to be a level
playing field, Tommy.
We leave the dayjobs behind.
I can’t be owing you favours.
Relax, Gerry.
You don’t owe me anything.
I’m not the Chapmans.
What’s that supposed to mean?
It means I hear things.
We all hear things.
Gerry Standing’s on the take.
Except if you were on the take,
you wouldn’t have looked so scared
of losing that last hand.
You’re taking their money, Gerry,
but you’re not spending it.
That suggests you might be playing
a very dangerous game indeed.
You need someone to watch your back.
Not as a quid pro quo...
..just as a mate.
I’m fine.
You give my love to the missus
and little Caitlin.
Keep them safe.
The Chapmans don’t observe
the boundaries.
DOORBELL RINGS
Hello, Gerry. Long time no see.
Yeah.
We’ve got trouble. So I hear.
One of your friends came to see me.
Friend? who? Steve someone.
Scottish, little, 3 bit chippy.
Could we not do this on the doorstep?
BABY CRIES
New member of the clan?
Congratulations.
I’ll put the kettle on, shall I?
There you go, mate.
Let’s get you cleaned up, eh?
So, Ackroyd. ..
What happened? Search me.
I’d assumed he’d been
sitting on a beach
somewhere for the last 30 years.
Well, apparently, someone got to him
before he could get away.
My money’s on Bryant and McCabe
on Dominic Chapman’s orders.
The problem is...
they put me in the frame for it.
That’s not good.
I’ve no idea what evidence they’ve
planted, or where.
Oh! What is that?
That, Gerry, is a metaphor.
Eurgh!
So what can you do?
They’re trying to make it look
like I was the bad cop
who killed a good cop.
I’ve got to prove that
that’s not the way it happened.
We.
You’re not in this on your own.
Well, thanks, Tommy.
I went to see one of the old DCIs
who were investigating
the Chapmans at the time. I asked
if he had a list of dodgy cops.
And?
He said if he had,
I’d be on it.
Mmm. Who was the cop?
Er, Ronald Sainsbury,
he worked upstairs.
Oh, dear, dear, dear.
What? Two things, you’ve put
that nappy on back to front
and Sainsbury was on the payroll.
You’re kidding?
No, he was one of Chapman’s.
But even if you had got the list, it
wouldn’t have got you off the hook.
There’s no getting off the hook,
Tommy.
I’m responsible for the death
of a policeman.
You had no choice.
That’s not going to cut much
mustard, is it?
And even if I can prove
what really happened,
all that’s going to do is put me
in a deeper hole with the Chapmans.
Come on, Charlie.
BABY GURGLES
And they’ve got plans for me,
one way or the other.
I’d like...
to report an assault.
So we reconstructed Ackroyd’s
skull in the computer
as to how it would have
been before the attack.
Then we simulated blows with a
variety of objects that are commonly
used in attacks like these. We’re
not getting very far, I’m afraid.
None of the objects we tried caused
damage that matched what was
actually there. We have worked out
a few things, though.
It was a blunt weapon,
no edges of any kind.
So circular like a baseball bat?
Yes, but not a baseball bat, we
tried one of those.
It was wooden.
About 1.5 inches in diameter.
You can stop talking about me,
I’m here now. Where have you been?
I’ve been to see a man about a dog.
Are you going to get a dog, Steve?
That’s a great idea.
Keep him company.
Yeah, where’s Gerry?
He took the baby home. Why?
No reason. So what have we got?
Well, the murder weapon is rounded,
made of wood
and about 1.5 inches in diameter.
And it’s not a baseball bat.
It’s a police truncheon, isn’t it?
Well, I presume you had the same
ones down here we had back up there
in Glasgow before they brought in
the new ones with the handles?
Actually, a truncheon’s not a bad
guess. So it could be a policeman?
We don’t know who was handling it.
How soon can they start digging
deeper into that basement?
They’re still trying to pump the
water out, it could be later today,
or tomorrow.
In the meantime,
I’ve tracked down that private
detective that Ackroyd hired.
OK, let’s go and talk to him.
Can I have a word?
This is absurd!
I don’t know what to believe.
You don’t believe that
Gerry Standing beat up a witness?!
Where is Gerry? At his
daughter’s, looking after the baby.
I think we should bring
the others in on this.
You’re not serious?
I find it difficult to believe
that Gerry Standing would
attack a witness.
So this Sainsbury character is lying.
This Sainsbury character is
a retired police officer,
Danny, with a spotless record. That
mayjust mean he never got caught.
Absolutely!
If Ackroyd is about to blow the
whistle on police corruption, who’s
to say that Sainsbury wasn’t going to
be one of the officers named?
Actually, he claims the opposite.
He says Ackroyd was going
to name Gerry.
This is ridiculous. It might not be.
You asked me to follow Bryant
and McCabe the other night.
So I followed them
around a load of pubs and clubs...
You said nothing happened.
They met up with Gerry.
I don’t think it was arranged and it
certainly didn’t seem amicable.
What were they talking about?
I don’t know, er,
I just caught the tail end of the
conversation, but I heard Bryant
mention the name Naylor.
As in Tommy Naylor. The gangster?
I went to visit him earlier,
he said he’d never heard of Gerry.
I think he’s lying.
You went to see Tommy Naylor? Yeah.
You didn’t think any of this
was worth mentioning, Steve?
Ijust wanted to be sure it meant
something before I...
Did I miss the meeting
where we changed how police
investigations work?
Was I off sick that day, or
something? Sasha... I’m your boss.
You tell me where you’re going and
what you’re doing at all times.
This is about Gerry.
This is an ongoing investigation
into the murder of a police officer.
We do not go off—piste like this.
Is that clear?
Yes, sure, yeah. Sorry.
While we’re putting
our cards on the table...
0h, brilliant, what have you done?!
Nothing.
I think Gerry recognised
Ackroyd’s Signet ring
when we first saw it in the basement.
You think?!
He had an odd reaction to it.
On its own it’s nothing
but stacked up against this
accusation from Sainsbury,
the fact that Gerry has some
sort of ongoing situation
with Bryant and McCabe
that he’s keeping from us,
the possible involvement
with Tommy Naylor
and the fact that Fiona thinks
that Ackroyd may have been killed
by a police truncheon...
I’m sorry, what? Thisjust came
out before you arrived. 0K, wait.
This is Gerry Standing
we’re talking about.
Does any of this seem
remotely likely?
Sasha, none of us
knew Gerry Standing 30 years ago.
Is it a huge stretch to imagine that,
as a young man,
he might have got himself involved
in something monumentally stupid?
This is really dangerous ground.
If anyone outside of Ucos gets even
a whiff that Gerry Standing
might be compromised, this case
will be handed off to another team,
a team who won’t know Gerry and will
only look at this apparently
mounting evidence against him.
Then we should talk to Gerry,
get his side of this. Absolutely.
Steve, ask Gerry to come back in,
will you?
If he’s got something to hide, sir,
he might not respond to that.
Tell him it’s not a request!
The police want him to help
with their inquiries.
Hello, er, Bill?
Gerry Standing.
Yeah, I’m all right, yeah. You?
Yeah, we allare, mate, I’ll tell
you. Listen, it’sjust a quick one.
Do you remember a team that were
looking into the Chapman family
back in ‘83?
Yeah, that’s right, Sainsbury, yeah.
Yeah, I wondered if you had any
mates that were on the team...
PHONE BUZZES
Hold on.
Sorry, another call.
I don’t suppose you know anybody who
might have known anybody?
No. All right.
No, it’s just a one-off,
don’t worry.
Cheers, yeah. See you soon.
Ta-ra.
Come on, you.
DS McCabe, DS Bryant.
Lovely to see you again.
Don’t remember the invite being
a plus-one.
This is Gerry Standing.
How do you do, Gerry? Do you know
who I am?
You’re Dominic Chapman.
That’s right.
Dad sends his apologies — said
there was something on telly.
Right.
Some little toerags knocked over
a jeweller’s in Knightsbridge
last week.
This establishment was supposed
to be under our protection.
The toerags in question have been
caught and dealt with
but the job was put together
by someone who’s becoming a bit
of a thorn in our side.
Dad would like you to raid
this guy’s establishment,
retrieve our belongings
and nick the little bastard —
and should you decide to bounce his
head off the pavement a few times
on the way to the nick, I don’t
think anyone would be too upset.
Are we taking out your rubbish now?
I think someone could do with a few
lessons in not speaking when he’s
being spoken to.
You’re making the world
a safer place
and getting a few Brownie points
from your bosses on the bust,
Mr Standing.
Everyone’s a winner.
What’s the name?
Naylor, Tommy Naylor.
BABY CRIES
It’s all right, it’s OK.
It’s one thing taking a hung
to look the other way —
but we’re talking about Chapman
paying cops to go and do his dirty
work for him.
Well, here.
Did what you said.
That’s all the money they’ve given
me. Names, dates, places — the lot.
We need to take that upstairs
to Sainsbury.
We need to think this through.
Bollocks, we’ve got to do something!
I’ll take it upstairs meself.
To who?
Who do we trust up there?
You think Bryant and McCabe are
the most senior officers
on Chapman’s payroll?
Then what?
I need to sound people out,
work out who’s with us and
who’s against us.
And in the meantime?
I don’t know, Gerry.
I’m sorry.
Just leave it with me.
Here we are.
Are you sure this is the place?
Well, what were you expecting?
A battered office door with
"R Woolcott, Investigator" painted
on the louvre glass pane?
A sassy broad in reception?
Hello. Hi, is Mr Woolcott in,
please?
I’m afraid he died.
Oh, I’m sorry. That’s OK,
it was about A0 years ago.
Mr R Woolcott, he was a
private detective.
Mr T Woolcott, my father.
I’m Rachael Woolcott, the private
detective as was.
0h, Isee.
May we come in, please?
Yeah, yes, of course. Thank you.
Yes, I was only a private detective
for a couple of years
in the early ‘80s, then I got
into security systems,
you know, high—end stuff.
That’s what pays the bills.
You had a client back then in 1983,
Martin Ackroyd?
The policeman? You’ve got
a good memory.
Well, he didn’t pay me. Those are
the ones you remember.
There’s possibly a reason for that.
He went missing a week after
he hired you.
We believe he was murdered.
Oh, dear. 0h, lam sorry.
What did he hire you to do?
It was a divorcejob, I think.
He wanted me to follow his wife,
take note of everywhere she went
and take pictures.
Mostly my bread and butter
was serving legal papers
and looking at accounts,
so this was easily the most exciting
thing I’d ever been offered
so Ijumped at it.
Ackroyd’s wife? Died, 2007.
Was she having an affair?
Oh, yes. Who with?
No idea. I mean, Igot pictures
of the guy
but the next step was to show
the pictures to the client
on the assumption that
he’d recognise him.
And you didn’t get that far because
Ackroyd disappeared?
Exactly. I know this was
30 years ago
and well before digital photographs
and computerised records...
Yes, I have everything.
I’m a hoarder, fortunately for you.
Everything’s in boxes
up in the attic.
Would you be able to...
What, make you some coffee while
you search through it all?
Certainly.
Hm!
Tonight’s the night, Gerald.
What? The Naylor raid.
Tommy Naylor goes down tonight. We’ll
get the jewellery from his safe,
dust our knuckles a little bit, then
off down the Queen’s Head after,
so you should all home and get
a late pass.
PHONE RINGS
DCI Ackroyd, please.
When’s he back?
No, that’s no good. I need
to speak to him today.
Have you got a number for
where he’s staying?
No, I don’t want to speak
to anyone else.
PHONE RINGS
Tommy, it’s Gerry.
If anyone ever asks, this
conversation never happened.
The safe, it’s empty.
Where’s Tommy Naylor?
Hmm?
Well, a fat lot of use you are then.
Find Naylor.
1m
No diamonds, no Tommy Naylor.
We are deep in the shit, gentlemen.
Well, I’ll say one thing for her —
these are marvellous boxes.
Glad you like them.
Ah, found the "A"s.
A—ha.
Ackroyd, here we are.
Well, this is awkward.
Who was she shagging?
PHONE RINGS
MUFFLED MUSIC
You’ve been a naughty boy, Gerald.
We’ve got some problems,
I understand.
A copper who doesn’t know
who he’s working for
and a friend who’s got a little bit
too big for his boots.
Tommy...
next time you think you can have
one over on the Chapman family,
I suggest you take a long look
in the mirror.
NAYLOR SHOUTS OUT
SCREAMING
Give him a kicking and
dump him somewhere.
NAYLOR GROANS
I’m not allowed to kill anyone
at the moment —
Dad says it’s bad for business.
There’s still fun to be had, though.
Better not lay a finger on me.
Or what?
It’s all documented.
Everything you’ve paid to these
two in the last three months.
This is all about to come crashing
down around your ears.
Anything you do to me now is
only going to make it worse.